= NU Core
Northwestern University Core Facility Management Software

== Quickstart

Welcome to NU Core! This guide will help you get a development environment up and running. It makes a few assumptions:

1. You write code on a Mac.
2. You have a running Oracle or MySQL instance with two brand new databases.
3. You have the following installed:
* Ruby[http://www.ruby-lang.org/en] 1.9.2
* Ruby On Rails[http://rubyonrails.org] 3.0.10
* Bundler[http://gembundler.com]
* Git[http://git-scm.com]

=== Spin it up

1. Download the project code from Github
    git clone git@github.com:tablexi/nucore-open.git nucore

2. Install dependencies
    cd nucore
    bundle install

3. Configure your local settings
    cd config/settings
    touch settings.local.yml
    ... edit settings.local.yml and add email.fake.to and override email.from with addresses that make sense for you ...

4. Configure your databases
    cp database.yml.template database.yml
    ... edit the adapter, database, username, and password settings for both the development and test DBs to match your database instance ...
    cd ..

5. Create your databases
    rake db:schema:load
    export RAILS_ENV=test; rake db:schema:load; unset RAILS_ENV

6. Seed your development database
    rake demo:seed

7. Start your server
    rails server

8. Login as Dave The Director
    ... Go to http://0.0.0.0:3000 ...
    ... Login with username 'ddi123@example.com' and password 'password' ...

9. Play around! You're running NU Core!


=== Test it

NU Core uses Rspec[http://rspec.info] to run tests. Try any of the following from NU Core's root directory.

* To run all tests (this will take awhile!)
    rake spec

* To run just the model tests
    rake spec:models

* To run just the controller tests
    rake spec:controllers


=== Learn more

There are valuable resources in the NU Core's doc directory.

* Need help getting Oracle running on your Mac? <b>See HOWTO_oracle.txt</b>

* Want to authenticate users against your institution's LDAP server? <b>See HOWTO_ldap.txt</b>

* Need to use a 3rd party service with your NU Core? <b>See HOWTO_external_services.txt</b>

* Need to asynchronously monitor some aspect of NU Core? <b>See HOWTO_daemons.txt</b>
